README.md, before:

# Sparvnastet Pelican
## Project serving static pages for sparvnastet.org

### Getting up and running

Start off with creating a virtualenvironment.
If you haven't already, install [virtualenvwrapper](http://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

    mkvirtualenv sparv_pelican

    pip install Markdown
    pip install pelican
    pip install pelican-vimeo
    pip install pelican-youtube
    pip install fabric

    git clone git@github.com:Sparvnastet/sparvnastet_pelican.git


### Development server
Activate your virtualenvironment and start the development server on localhost:8000

    workon sparv_pelican
    ./develop_server.sh start


### Installing Foundation
We use [foundation.zurb.com](foundation.zurb.com) as framework for the CSS stuff.

    sudo npm install -g bower grunt-cli

    gem install foundation

You need Ruby installed for this since Foundation uses SASS which is built with Ruby.

More information on foundation and the installation process here
[http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/sass.html](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/sass.html)

### Adding content
Pages to be published are saved in the ``content`` directory.
Running either ``make html`` or ``fab build`` will process the content data
and store the resulting output it in the ``output`` directory.

#### Naming pages
Prepend every page with the current date like
``2014-03-04-this-is-the-filename.rst``. This will help us keep the files in
 order. This doesn't affect anything visible. The actual publish date is set
  in the meta tag in the file like:

    :title: The Page title
    :date: 2012-07-26 00:00
    :modified: 2012-07-26 00:00
    :category: Blog
    :tags: a-tag-for-this-page
    :slug: the-slug
    :authors: Sparven
    :summary: a short content summary

``slug`` will be the title of the page and also the name of the file when
processed and placed in the ``output`` directory. A file with ``:slug:
sparvnastet`` will end up as ``output/sparvnastet.html``


### Changing the layout

``Foundation`` is used for the presentation. Theme used is``themes/sparrowtheme``.
The current theme is defined in ``pelicanconf.py`` as::

    THEME = 'themes/sparrowtheme'


#### Compile CSS
Use Grunt to compile the SCSS into CSS

    cd themes/sparrowtheme/foundation/
    grunt

This will output the SCSS into the directory specified in ``themes/sparrowtheme/foundation/Gruntfile.js``


Structure of the theme directory

    themes/
        sparrowtheme/
            static/
                css/
            foundation/
                [foundation specific stuff]
                css/
                scss/
            templates/

The ``sparrowtheme/static/css`` directory contains the output from ``sparrowtheme/foundation/scss/`` after grunt (or any other)
build process has compiled the ``*.scss`` files into ``css``.


### Passphrase for public key

If you encounter the following and haven't set fabric to use SSH Agent Forwarding:

    fab publish

    ssh.sparvnastet.org
    [vojd@ssh.sparvnastet.org] Executing task 'publish'
    [vojd@ssh.sparvnastet.org] run: echo "running remotely"
    [vojd@ssh.sparvnastet.org] Passphrase for private key:

Then just type anything and hit enter. Then Fabric will continue to ask you for the ssh password.
You can read more about this issue at the bottom of this page [http://fabric.readthedocs.org/en/1.3.4/faq.html](http://fabric.readthedocs.org/en/1.3.4/faq.html)


# Calendar

## Adding events to the calendar
The calendar resides in ``content/calendar/calendar.json``. To add an event simply add an object to the list in the JSON file.
NOTE: The calendar widget doesn't sort the events by date at the moment. It simply picks the first object as the latest event.

Commit message:

new make and fab file, update readme

README.md, after:

# Sparvnastet Pelican
## Project serving static pages for sparvnastet.org

### Getting up and running

Start off with creating a virtualenvironment.
If you haven't already, install [virtualenvwrapper](http://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

    mkvirtualenv sparv_pelican

    pip install Markdown
    pip install pelican
    pip install pelican-vimeo
    pip install pelican-youtube
    pip install fabric

    git clone git@github.com:Sparvnastet/sparvnastet_pelican.git


### Development server
Activate your virtualenvironment and start the development server on localhost:8000

    workon sparv_pelican
    ./develop_server.sh start


### Installing Foundation
We use [foundation.zurb.com](foundation.zurb.com) as framework for the CSS stuff.

    sudo npm install -g bower grunt-cli

    gem install foundation

You need Ruby installed for this since Foundation uses SASS which is built with Ruby.

More information on foundation and the installation process here
[http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/sass.html](http://foundation.zurb.com/docs/sass.html)

### Adding content
Pages to be published are saved in the ``content`` directory.
Running either ``make html`` or ``fab build`` will process the content data
and store the resulting output it in the ``output`` directory.

#### Naming pages
Prepend every page with the current date like
``2014-03-04-this-is-the-filename.rst``. This will help us keep the files in
 order. This doesn't affect anything visible. The actual publish date is set
  in the meta tag in the file like:

    :title: The Page title
    :date: 2012-07-26 00:00
    :modified: 2012-07-26 00:00
    :category: Blog
    :tags: a-tag-for-this-page
    :slug: the-slug
    :authors: Sparven
    :summary: a short content summary

``slug`` will be the title of the page and also the name of the file when
processed and placed in the ``output`` directory. A file with ``:slug:
sparvnastet`` will end up as ``output/sparvnastet.html``


### Compiling ``markdown`` and ``rst`` files to ``html``

Run ``make publish`` to generate HTML-files from your sources.
NOTE that this will first delete everything in the ``/output`` directory.

### Publishing to sparvnastet.org

The page is served on sparvnastet.github.io. To get new content served from there
first you need to push the changes to the ``gh-pages`` branch.

Run ``make github``. This will first run the ``publish`` command, then run the ``ghp-import`` script
and add all changes to the ``gh-pages`` branch before pushing it to github.


### Changing the layout

``Foundation`` is used for the presentation. Theme used is``themes/sparrowtheme``.
The current theme is defined in ``pelicanconf.py`` as::

    THEME = 'themes/sparrowtheme'


#### Compile CSS
Use Grunt to compile the SCSS into CSS

    cd themes/sparrowtheme/foundation/
    grunt

This will output the SCSS into the directory specified in ``themes/sparrowtheme/foundation/Gruntfile.js``


Structure of the theme directory

    themes/
        sparrowtheme/
            static/
                css/
            foundation/
                [foundation specific stuff]
                css/
                scss/
            templates/

The ``sparrowtheme/static/css`` directory contains the output from ``sparrowtheme/foundation/scss/`` after grunt (or any other)
build process has compiled the ``*.scss`` files into ``css``.


# Calendar

## Adding events to the calendar
The calendar resides in ``content/calendar/calendar.json``. To add an event simply add an object to the list in the JSON file.
NOTE: The calendar widget doesn't sort the events by date at the moment. It simply picks the first object as the latest event.
